[MUSIC] Welcome back, you're back at week one of the second part
of responsive web development and design. We've gone really well so far. This week, now that we've learned
the basics, we're going to look at more of the principles, design principles,
behind developing websites. So I want to look at some of the concepts
that underpin web development. And two things you'll hear talked about
are usability and user experience. Usability is fairly straight forward. It's about how usable your website is. This might mean how efficient it is,
how memorable it is for your users, how learnable,
how intuitive it is. The other term, the user experience,
which is often abbreviated to UX, is something that's really come
to light in the past few years. It's become a very big industry. It doesn't just apply to websites. It's also a big part of
product design as well. User experience, UX, is very subjective. It's about how the user
feels about a website. Are they happy? Frustrated or bored? And your aim is to give them
a good user experience. It's not something you can predict. It's not something you can guarantee. But if you practice good design, then hopefully they will
have a good user experience. Good usability and
good design mean good UX. When thinking about making your website,
know your audience, think about who that website is for. Who is your user? Think about the type of
site that you're creating. If you're making some
kind of ecommerce site, you might have a particular consumer in
mind who wants to buy a particular thing. If you're making something for
friends and family, you probably know the level of expertise
and experience that your users have. Design for them, design with them in mind. Remember that you may have more than one
type of user, that's quite common, and you have to look for a way of navigating
between the different user groups. So under this umbrella of user experience
come lots of different things, interface design, usability,
content, structure. And this week we're going to
be looking at the way we can apply design principles to achieve
this good user experience, so we'll be looking at things
like how you structure a page. How you make something accessible,
and what are good and bad examples of web design. [MUSIC]