[MUSIC] So far, we have looked at where am I? Where can I go? Now we are going to look at what is here? You have to stick to
this model of where am I? Where can I go? What is here? But is is a really good way of
beginning if you are not familiar with building websites. It's a good way of providing
that usability for your users. Now, we've laid out our website,
is a bit of a grid structure, so I'd like to talk a little bit about that. If you think back to the first
part of this course. Remember the idea of the box model. So CSS all the elements in a web page can
be thought of as a box, a rectangular box. Take the idea of that box model and expand it and we're gonna think of
our page as just a series of boxes. So when we think about where am I and
where can I go, then underneath we've just got
the content in a series of boxes. And we know this is way that people can
look at websites,so if we think back, here's our album that we're going to make. So we have four boxes here
representing four albums. And they're all laid out in a row. Now the nice thing about
the grid layout and the idea of using boxes is that
it's very fluid and responsive. So we can mix things up,
we can lay things out. In this box format. Here's that F shaped scaling pattern
again of what people see in websites. And you can see we've captured those
elements of branding of navigation, but also, because we've got the content in
boxes you find that people are actually, look at those boxes as well. It draws the eye in. So we know from other eye tracking
experiments that,that also happens. That people look for specific areas for
content that have white space around them. So that's what we have here for our page. So as I was saying, the really
nice thing about the grid layout is that you can break it down
into separate components. So this is our mobile version roughly
off the site that we're trying to build. And you can see here that we kept the
similar bits at the top, the Where am I. So letting the user know
what page they're on. The Where can I go,
which is our link that you see here. And the only difference between
the mobile version and the full version is that these boxes become responsive and
fluid and we can move them around. And in this case they all
fall one below the other so that you can scroll through and
see them each in turn. The things you need to ask when you're
putting your content onto your website. Can the user find
the content that they want? And you need to make it really clear, and
so that's why we see things like careful use of white space,
careful use of borders and height lines, to make sure that we're highlighting
the information that the user needs. So this grid structure is really useful. It's very effective
because it's modular and because we can move
these components around. So we must check that the user
can find what they want, and we've done that here
by spacing out nicely. Plenty of white space, borders that
draw the eye in, and clear labels for each section. Every section on your web page needs to
tell a story so think about what your users looking at and think what will
catch their attention and draw their eye. [MUSIC]