[MUSIC] We are now going to look at accessibility. Accessibility is really important and
falls under user experience. So what is it? What is the web accessibility initiative? What kind of things can you do
to make your site accessible? And how can you check that it's working? As you'll see, web accessibility
encompasses all disabilities that effect access to the web. Now this might include visual impairments. So, if someone isn't able to see
content on the web in their browser, they might have it read to them
instead through a screen reader. They might not be able to hear
things particularly well, so they may need captions of some sort
if there's multimedia content. They might have motor difficulties,
physical difficulties that make it difficult to control input
devices like a keyboard or a mouse. And so
some kind of adaptation is required. They may have difficulty with speech. They may not be able to
use speech interfaces. There may be cognitive or
neurological difficulties that stop them from accessing
the content in a particular way. Thing about accessibility is,
that designing for a good accessibility means you're being very inclusive and
you're designing for everyone. So it's a better user
experience all around. This is the World Wide Web
Consortium's Accessibility Initiative. They have a huge resource
on their website for getting started with web accessibility. It's addressed to people
who use the web and how they can set up their browsers
to the best way of viewing content. And also, accessibility basics for
people designing websites. There's plenty of information about it. They give you an introduction
to accessibility. What factors you might need when
you're designing a webpage. And they give you the guidelines, the web
content accessibility guidelines for websites and web applications. They also provide a list of resources and
tools. Things like how to evaluate your
site to check for accessibility. A common form of making something
accessible, is to use a screen reader or a text only browser for people who
have any kind of visual impairments. This is an example of that. So here on the screen we have
the Goldsmiths University of London page on the University of London's website. And this is the one we looked at
previously when we were looking at breadcrumb trails. So it's just basically some links,
some content, some contact information. For anyone who isn't able to read that,
you can get browsers that will turn that purely into text, and then you can
have plugins that can read it aloud. So here is a text version of that, using
an extension [INAUDIBLE] called Textize, that prints out the text only version for
you, removes all formatting, so you're right down to the content
without any modification. To take that a step further, you can then
use an extension such as Chrome Vox, that if you enable it,
will allow you to have that read to you. So, for example, here we are. And I can turn it on so
you can hear the webpage being read out. >> Text. >> Extensions Tab. Textized University of London Goldsmiths. University of London, tab, Goldsmiths University of
London Undergraduate programs, link. Postgraduate programs, link. Short courses, link. >> And you get the idea. Looking at the Web Accessibility
Initiative's easy checks, it's clear to see the kind of very
simple practical things you can do to make sure your
webpage is accessible. Always give your page a title. Make sure that if you've got an image,
as we've said before, it has some kind of alt-text. An alternative text description. So that you describe,
perhaps the contents of the picture. Make sure your headings
are actually headings and they're not just different sized fonts. Make sure your contrast is good, so that you've got a good
balance between light and dark. Light background,
dark text, or vice versa. Make sure the text on your
page can be resized, so that anyone who needs the text a little
larger will be able to do that themselves. And make sure that there are alternatives
to any multimedia you include, so if you have a video, make sure there are some
captions on that video, some subtitles. And if you have audio, make sure you
have some kind of description as well. Essentially, check through all of your
site to make sure that it can be accessed in a number of ways. And you can do that by turning images
on and off, by turning scripts on and off, just to see how well
the page stands up on its own. [MUSIC]